Here's a film that doesn't compromise in its depiction of terminal illness. Too many movies do, and it's never made much sense why they do. The thought, it seems, is that we can accept a portrayal of dying and/or death as long it is appropriately "sad" or "tragic"—that there's a certain degree of romanticism to and distance from it. These movies allow us to feel the general emotions that come with the event of death, but we're rarely allowed to see the process of dying. The former is cathartic. The latter is not. Miss You Already admirably gives us the latter.

This is not one of those movies in which the dying character occasionally coughs to hint that the character's death is inevitable. This is not a movie in which a person on his or her deathbed looks only slightly less healthy, as if the makeup department simply did its job by applying less foundation or blush on that day of shooting, or even has an almost angelic glow, as if to suggest that the moment that's approaching will be a transcendent one for all involved. No, here the process of dying is long, arduous, and painful on multiple levels and for everyone involved.

The film is not as depressing as it sounds, though, and that's because the screenplay by Morwenna Banks frames the story of the death of Milly (Toni Collette) as one of friendship and care. Milly's best friend Jess (Drew Barrymore) is there through most of the experience, and even though Jess has no idea how to console or comfort her friend, she does the most that she can. She helps her friend to laugh, to remember the good times, to go on a random adventure, and to be there for her family. She remains a friend. It might not seem like much, but it's the best she can do.

The trouble is that Banks doesn't fully trust the relationship or its potential for drama without throwing a few arbitrary conflicts into the mix. It's a shame, really, but one that doesn't completely diminish the emotional impact of what the film accomplishes when it keeps its focus on the way the disease devastates Milly's body and mind, while also affecting her friends and family. Those scenes—and there are many of them—have a level of honesty that transcends the film's rough middle section.

The story is divided into three acts: illness, remission, and recurrence. Jess and Milly have been friends since childhood, when Jess moved to England after her father got a new job there. They have been there for each other throughout all of life's most important events. Milly is married to Kit (Dominic Cooper), a former roadie who has settled down into family life, and they have two children (Honor Kneafsey and Ryan Lennon Baker). Jess is married to Jago (Paddy Considine), and they are trying to have a baby.

Milly is diagnosed with breast cancer. She hides the news from Jess and her family until just before her chemotherapy treatments begin. Jess accompanies her to the sessions.

The film is unafraid of doing two things: showing the effect of Milly's illness and allowing humor to come through in even these difficult times. This is a surprisingly funny film, but the humor is by no means forced upon the situation.

It seeps into the material naturally as the way these two friends have always dealt with anything in life. It simply doesn't stop because of illness. Barrymore's performance stumbles at points, especially in regards to the subplot involving her trying to get pregnant, but she shows such ease in these scenes with Milly, which could easily become maudlin. Instead, she conveys a sense of intentionally trying to maintain a level of normalcy—joking around and passing good-natured insults—in the face of a long needle attached to a tube pumping toxic chemicals into her friend's body.

The humor doesn't undermine what's happening to Milly, either. It's shown through significant—her nausea from the drugs—and small details—the wide bruise on her hand from repeated treatments. There are feelings of despair, such as when she learns she may have to undergo a mastectomy, and humiliation, such as when she begins to lose her hair. There's nothing remotely romantic or generically tragic about the progression of her illness and the treatment for it. It's specifically debilitating, and Collette's performance is one of intense physical (Her appearance in the later scenes of the film is particularly jarring for its authenticity) and psychological transformations.

The second act, when the disease seems to be under control, is the film's least effective. It follows Milly's affair with a younger bartender (Tyson Ritter) and Jess' discovery that she's pregnant.

The primary problem is that these characters, who are so open and honest about their lives and their feelings, suddenly grow silent and uncommunicative (Director Catherine Hardwicke tries to communicate what isn't said through repeated close-ups, but it's not quite the same). The reasoning is sound (Milly feels unloved by Kit, who doesn't know how to react to his wife's illness, and Jess doesn't want to sound like she's gloating), but it feels as if the screenplay is sacrificing the heart of these relationships for conflicts that must be overcome.

As the third act shows, Miss You Already doesn't need those complications. The film's straightforward, blunt depiction of illness, along with its sympathetic view of family and friends trying to do what they can, is more than enough.

Combining a gleeful mixture of crudity, gore and a pleasingly high gag rate, Christopher Landon’s hilarious horror comedy makes a welcome addition to the ever-expanding zomcom genre and is worthy of a place alongside the likes of Zombieland.

It opens with three scouting best buddies – level-headed Ben (Tye Sheridan), filthy-minded Carter (Logan Miller) and chubby, sweet-natured Augie (Joey Morgan) – preparing for their last camping trip with Scout Leader Rogers (David Koechner). Venturing into town on a supply run, they are shocked to discover that their small town is under attack from a horde of zombies.

Assisted by shotgun-toting waitress Denise (Sarah Dumont), the trio will have to use all their scouting knowledge in order to save their town from zombie-based destruction.

Displaying expert comic timing, the three leads put in perfectly pitched performances, while Dumont delivers a kick-ass turn that’s sure to earn her a legion of adolescent fans. There’s also strong support from Cloris Leachman as a crotchety pensioner who’s scary even before she becomes a zombie, though Koechner is sadly underused as the scout leader.

Happily, Landon gets the gags to gore ratio exactly right, balancing enjoyably schlocky effects with a non-stop barrage of great jokes and a handful of very funny set-pieces. Similarly, the script ensures that the laughs come from a variety of sources, ranging from character-based comedy to one-liners and crude physical gags, as well as bizarre, off-the-wall moments such as a zombie cat attack or a zombie sing-along to Britney Spears.

Admittedly, some of the bad taste material doesn’t quite come off (there’s a homage to Re-Animator that should probably have been cut), but there are enough belly laughs elsewhere to ensure that such lapses are swiftly forgiven.

In short, this is a hugely entertaining zom-com that’s likely to pick up a devoted cult following amongst genre fans, thanks to a winning combination of crudity, gore and laughs.

JM Barrie is probably spinning in his grave, yet this bold ransacking of the classic tale about "The Boy Who Never Grew Up" is a fantasy extravaganza on a massive eye-popping scale. It never looks less than fabulous, even when director Joe Wright’s high-flying ambitions overcrowd the senses and the sensational.
Call it "Panna", even, because it follows Wright’s own Hanna template but writ in even larger fanciful terms, as a young boy goes on a destiny-finding mission to a storybook universe tracked by a ruthless tyrant. But with the darker sides dialled down and the self-knowing whimsy at a premium these ostentatious adventures take us to familiar lands and more often than not recapture the magic of Barrie’s fertile imagination. 
Way more inspired than Steven Spielberg’s ham-fisted Hook or PJ Hogan’s pretentious Peter Pan, this skilfully woven prequel opens during the Second World War with Peter (a thankfully non-bratty Levi Miller) an orphan in the Lambeth Home for Boys, run by greedy harridan Mother Barnabas (Kathy Burke, giving hideous camp a new meaning). She’s selling her forsaken wards to the evil pirate Blackbeard (a spitefully charismatic Hugh Jackman, unrecognisable with goatee beard and pompadour wig), who gets his scurvy minions to bungee-jump them off to the floating island of Neverland where they are put to work mining Pixum in vast quarries.

Blackbeard needs this mineral fairy dust to remain immortal – a very creepy scene shows the wizened despot inhaling the lit crystals through a gas mask. After showing signs of insubordination, Peter is condemned to walk the plank but flies rather than dies, something that causes Blackbeard instant dread, for ye olde Neverland prophecy decrees a flying boy will signal his demise, meaning he must eradicate Peter immediately.
Unfortunately for Blackbeard, Peter has escaped to the Tribal Territory with new friend James Hook (two-handed Garrett Hedlund in full Indiana Jones mode). There, Princess Tiger Lily (Rooney Mara) recognises Peter’s value in saving Neverland from Blackbeard’s oppression and reveals the entrance to Fairy Land so he can fulfil the destiny his mother (Amanda Seyfried) had planned for him. That’s precisely what Blackbeard wants to happen, as the elfin kingdom boasts unlimited supplies of Pixum, and so the stage is set for exciting thrills and superior swashbuckling spectacle.  
Pan niftily touches all the recognisable Barrie bases – giant crocodiles, Lost Boys, mermaids (hilariously all played by Cara Delevingne), Smee (a dopey Adeel Akhtar), tiny Tinker Bell – but casts them in a totally different light than expected. Entirely unexpected are the deliberate touchstones to other significant movies that seems to be Wright’s main driving force though his upended Neverland narrative. 
The opening screams the musical Oliver! so potently you literally are waiting for the orphans to sing Food, Glorious, Food. Once in the epic Mad Max-type mines, a steampunk Moulin Rouge! comes to mind when the cast bursts into choruses of Nirvana’s Smells Like Teen Spirit and The Ramones’ Blitzkrieg Bop. Not to mention the Avatar-style vistas of giant water globules bursting with sea life; the Ray Harryhausen-esque Never Birds; the Superman Fortress of Solitude-like Fairy Land visuals; the Narnia-type Spitfire dogfight raids the hovering galleon sails through… everything pushes a familiar genre button while remaining consistently inventive, constantly surprising, rollicking entertainment.
True, while all this eclectic daydream-believing is a wonder to behold, full of vivid dayglo colour, amazing stunts and solid CGI mastery, there is little to engage the emotions no matter how hard Levi Miller tries to pull the Harry Potter-lite heartstrings. That’s really the only downside to this considerable escapist delight, which indulges the virtues of wide-eyed wonder with expert craft and kaleidoscopic dazzle without resorting to the prequel curse of clunkily foreshadowing future events (remember Oz the Great and Powerful?). Refreshingly oddball in it’s intermingling of the old-fashioned with post-modern revisionism, Pan is the Wright Stuff with Bedknobs and Broomsticks on.
CLEVELAND, Ohio – It's not supposed to work this way. The second film in a trilogy is often a letdown, a place-holder, an exposition-laced yawner setting up the more climactic thrills of No. 3.

But "Maze Runner: The Scorch Trials" is actually an entertaining action-adventure that not only stands on its own, but surpasses the more limited rewards offered by "The Maze Runner."

Unlike other teens-gone-wild dystopian dramas, like "The Hunger Games" and "Divergent" franchises, the "Maze Runner" films, based on James Dashner's best sellers, do not reach for higher philosophical contemplations of the state of humanity.

Nor do they provide a lot of backstory. Some may find this frustrating. I find it fun. Believe me, if you were confused in the first one, you'll be just as clueless this time around. But it's worth the ride anyway.



Thomas (Dylan O'Brien) and his gang of escapees return. After surviving the bizarre traumas of the maze and learning a few things about WCKD, the World Catastrophe Killzone Department run by the cold, calculating Dr. Ava Paige (Patricia Clarkson), they find themselves in a medical facility awaiting transfer to some mystery destination.

Their chief nemesis at the facility is Janson (Aiden Gillen), and because he keeps reassuring them that everything will be OK, we know it won't be. Thomas senses this immediately, but he has to convince the others, including Minho (Ki Hong Lee), Newt (Thomas Brodie-Sangster), Frypan (Dexter Darden) and Winston (Alexander Flores). They are joined by a newcomer named Aris (Jacob Lofland), who came from a different maze. (There were other mazes? Who knew?) And they reunite with their old friend Teresa (Kaya Scodelario).  

Once again, Thomas becomes the de facto leader, as they flee the facility, where some weird medical procedures are taking place, and run head-on into The Scorch, a desert wasteland. (Cue the images of bridges to nowhere and devastated cities.) They are searching for the Right Arm, some sort of rebel force hiding in the mountains.

Wherever they go, they fall deeper into trouble, before teaming with Jorge (Giancarlo Esposito) and Brenda (Rosa Salazar), some savvy Scorch-dwellers who may or may not be trustworthy.

There is not a lot of time for character development, or much dialogue for that matter, as Thomas and company need to maintain perpetual motion.

Wes Ball, who also directed the first film, keeps the action flowing at a hearty pace, and hurtles us nicely into No. 3 ("The Death Cure," due in 2017). In fact, were it not for the appearance of several Cranks, Zombielike beings infected by the "Flare" (as crazed creatures go, this lot is laughably lame), "Maze Runner: The Scorch Trials" would be one of the better adventure films of the year.

CLEVELAND, Ohio -- Such a funny, smart movie, so many obstacles on the journey to reach the mainstream audience it deserves.

"Our Brand Is Crisis" is based on the documentary of the same name by Rachel Boynton about the 2002 presidential election in Bolivia, in which teams of American political operatives were hired by the top two candidates.

Sandra Bullock stars in a well-acted, nuanced and complex role as "Calamity" Jane Bodine, an American political campaign veteran who is lured out of retirement to help a Bolivian candidate overcome a 30-point poll deficit in a bare-knuckle, high-stakes campaign.

Billy Bob Thornton plays a thinly veiled and creepy James Carville type, Jane's old nemesis from previous political campaigns back in the States. The movie combines intrigue, drama and flat-out slapstick humor as a formula for an enjoyable romp through the world of international political hi-jinx.

An action scene involving two campaign buses racing each other around precipitous mountain roads is especially entertaining and hilarious.

The South American setting is exotic, the cultural fish-out-of water element is vivid, and the battle for the presidency of Bolivia is both rife with cynical humor and real-life urgency.

If you enjoy the humor of the Julia Louis Dreyfus cable series "Veep," if you liked Barry Levinson's "Wag the Dog," this movie is for you. The story is well-paced, the humor is laugh-out-loud funny, and the whole tone of the narrative, especially in the dim light of the current and sideshow-absurd 2016 American presidential campaign, is exceedingly apt and deliciously dark.

Bullock's impossible task is to bring her candidate, a former Bolivian president, believably played by Joaquim de Almeida, a real longshot by any measure, back into contention. It takes the old pro, Bullock, a while to find her footing -- but when she does, the gloves come off, sparks fly and the game is on.

The give-and-take among Bullock, Thornton and their teams of rivals is riveting and often funny. Scoot McNairy gets big laughs as Rich, the media marketer for Bullock who has trouble pronouncing simple words and a bigger problem understanding the more complex concepts of political campaigns.

Reynaldo Pacheco plays Eddie, a young Bolivian local and naive believer in Bullock's candidate, with tender sincerity. In some ways, he carries the heart of the story from the Bolivian perspective.

Here are some of the movie's many public relations problems. The title, "Our Brand Is Crisis," even though taken from the documentary on which it is based, is at best obtuse and at worst meaningless.

This is a Sandra Bullock vehicle. Why not call it "Calamity Jane"? Timing is another roadblock. Americans are currently awash, and often unpleasantly so, in the current 2016 debates. Why would audiences pay to see a movie about dark, cynical behavior as it applies to foreign politics? Who needs more cynicism from another country, when we have so much here?

This is all to say that, despite its terrible name and the current political climate at home, and thanks in large part to the great writing by Peter Straughan, and the wonderful, sharp performances by Bullock and Thornton, this movie is really worth seeing. Just for fun. You could do a lot worse with what's out there in theaters now.

"Crimson Peak" (R, 119 min.) ***1/2     Writer-director Guillermo del Toro's perverse Gothic romance in the guise of a ghost story is essentially conservative: Even as it stains the snow blood-red, it breaks no new ground. Nevertheless, it's a knockout -- an exquisitely rendered, color-coded amplification of a Roger Corman/Edgar Allan Poe film of the 1960s, set in a labyrinthine House of Usher (or Escher) sinking into the scarlet muck from the weight of accumulated sin. Mia Wasikowska is the innocent Miss Cushing (named for Hammer horror star Peter Cushing), a would-be Bronte-style writer wooed by a mysterious baronet (Tom Hiddleston) with a sinister sister (Jessica Chastain); these characters' intense but suppressed or concealed emotions find vivid, even raw expression in the elaborate production design, the flayed agony of the ghosts and the infrequent but shocking violence.
In 1912 England, a laundry worker (the chameleon-like Carey Mulligan) is drawn gradually into the fight for women's votes. As the intransigence of the male power structure grows ever more brutal (personified by Brendan Gleeson's implacable police inspector), she is moved to militancy in the cause of simple social justice. Abi Morgan's script smoothly mixes fictitious characters like Mulligan's—and a pharmacist played by Helena Bonham Carter—with historical figures like Emmeline Pankhurst (a star cameo by Meryl Streep) and Emily Davison (Natalie Press), whose death in a demonstration at the 1913 Epsom Derby helped galvanize support for the cause. Under Sarah Gavron's firm direction, Edward Grau's gritty cinematography and the sometimes murky accents (to American ears) add an aura of documentary realism. J.L.
ROOM. Even the word stands in isolation. There is no “The” to give it a sense of meaning, nor any descriptive to give it a sense of occasion. It is “ROOM:” A word, a place, an idea of structure unto itself.

Based on Emma Donoghue’s bestseller, and adapted for the screen by the writer alone, ROOM has one central challenge before it even begins. We’re largely stuck in one place: one room.

Without any view to the larger world or a context to work with, director Lenny Abrahamson (Frank) introduces us to Ma (Brie Larson) and Jack (Jacob Tremblay), a mother and son who appear to be survivors of some apocalyptic event.

They are in a brick-lined room with only one source of light from above. They exercise, watch television and eat. But it’s clear they cannot leave. The only thing we don’t know is why.

Abrahamson makes the most of these initial scenes, successfully setting a science-fiction tone, even though everything we see in front of us looks familiar, and vaguely of our era.

It’s where the movie either succeeds or fails, because in order to really get the most out of ROOM, you have to enter an altered state. Reality has to shrink down to the size of a tiny little box designed specifically for humans. It can be a shelter, but also a cage.

For the first chunk, ROOM keeps us guessing as to which one it is – but even though it can answer the question with absolute certainty from a plot perspective through the denouement, it can’t answer the larger spiritual question of what ROOM really is, because even though we begin to see more rooms, our central characters remain trapped.

It’s such a heavy metaphor, you keep wondering if it was originally produced for the Danish stage with only a table, chair and chalk lines. Certainly, if it had been left in the hands of Lars von Trier, it would have been that, and less.

So we are grateful it was Irish director Lenny Abrahamson, the genius behind Frank, who took on the significant challenge of bringing some air into ROOM.

In the first act, he opens a window of suspense. In the last, he creates a draft with delicate drama. It couldn’t have been easy, because you can sometimes feel a hint of manufactured wind: Scenes that feel a little too arranged, and actions that seem unfathomable.

There’s a lurching quality to the whole film that can be distracting as the characters wander off and the focus shifts, but it still works magic because we buy into the point of view: We buy into Jack, a young man who knows nothing of the world other than the room he grew up in.

Beautifully played by Canadian actor Jacob Tremblay, Jack’s innocence becomes an extension of character – the metaphysical force capable of reckoning with ROOM, the symbol of all things human, and our dark desire to contain, own and ultimately control things and others.

Without a hint of affectation, or a single off beat, Tremblay becomes a capable vessel for our emotions when everyone else starts to look too weak or flawed to root for, and as a result, ROOM’s dramatic dimensions get a lot bigger.

We’re not stuck in some existentialist cube of theatrics. We’re getting the chance to experience our world for the first time, and see it for the bizarre, foreign and frequently false place it can be – but it only works because we feel love for Jack.

Jack becomes our emotional eyeballs, allowing us to see all the empty space between us. We channel him. But we react to the rest of the characters, first by judging them, then through forgiveness – allowing us to go through a similar arc as those in the film.

Joan Allen is predictably spectacular, and the mother-daughter scenes between her and Brie Larson are so good they make you weep—and not just because they’re supposed to.

Abrahamson craftily uses ROOM to measure the space between us. Using love as his rule, the director maps a large part of the human experience with very few steps – and miraculously finds redemption in every corner.

As metaphor, ROOM is highly satisfying because it plays out a significant philosophical conundrum about the nature of reality. What if the only thing we knew was one room? And what if our understanding of Earth and our place in the universe were the same thing?

ROOM is as much about everything we see and feel as much as it’s about everything we don’t, which means from a dramatic point of view, it could present some frustration as the characters are forced into unnatural places.

Then again, that’s the whole point of ROOM – it may be four walls and a roof, but it’s not natural. The only room that really matters, and offers true shelter, is the little manger you make in your heart for others.

It’s a sunny theme indeed, but be ready. ROOM is a dark place.
Alex and Stephen Kendrick are the Joel and Ethan Coen of the Christian movie scene. The brothers made a name for themselves with the independent faith-based drama Facing the Giants in 2006, then scored two more indie successes, 2008’s Fireproof (starring Kirk Cameron) and 2011’s Courageous. Each time, they hit the bullseye with the target audience. Their latest, War Room, is something of a graduation into the big leagues, as it’s being released under Sony Pictures’ Affirm Films banner. Although the Kendricks have taken a step up, their work remains as earnest and religious as ever. They clearly have no intention of abandoning their mission just because they have a bigger budget. War Room doesn’t provide anything particularly new, but it thankfully doesn’t throw in any of the uncomfortable secular paranoia that made faith-based films like God’s Not Dead and Do You Believe? so off-putting to non-Evangelicals. This is simply a nice story told with great sincerity.

Karen Abercrombie plays Miss Clara, an elderly woman who intends to sell the home she has lived in for decades. Her real estate agent is Elizabeth Jordan (Priscilla C. Shirer). It quickly becomes clear that Elizabeth is having extreme marital conflict with her husband, a pharmaceutical rep named Tony (T.C. Stallings). They argue over finances, his workaholic ways, and his general disinterest in their young daughter’s activities. Miss Clara suggests that Elizabeth empty out her closet and turn it into a “war room” – a place where she can launch a prayer strategy designed to repair her marriage. After some initial skepticism, she complies, and before long, things start to improve. Once Tony discovers what she’s been doing, he begins praying in the war room, too.

There are certain things one expects from a faith-based film, and War Room has most of them. There are scenes where characters stop to deliver impromptu sermons. There are almost humorously heavy-handed and/or didactic moments, such as a bizarre scene in which Miss Clara fends off a would-be mugger simply by invoking the name of Jesus. And, of course, there’s a climactic scene set at a double-dutch jump rope contest. (Okay, that last one isn’t typical, but I swear, it really is here.) There is nothing subtle about this movie. It’s designed to send a message that, especially in marriage, prayer is something that helps couples stay on a loving path.

Even if it does have a fair amount of stilted drama, War Room frequently manages to overcome it. Much of this is due to the performances. There’s a scene where Elizabeth breaks down and prays to God, then roams around her house, and onto the back porch, yelling at the devil to stay away. Now, a scene like that could come off as very corny, and in a way, it is. But Shirer performs the speech with so much raw conviction that it’s tough not to buy into it anyway. If you’ve ever had a moment in life where you felt lost, prayed for direction, then somehow sensed that your plea had been heard, a scene such as this will ring a bell, even if you didn’t actually start screaming at Satan. Shirer is very good, as is Stallings, who convincingly conveys the idea that Tony becomes aware of his failings as a husband and father, then decides it is time to change. The real star, however, is Abercrombie, who brings an authentic sense of seen-it-all wisdom to Miss Clara. We can believe that she would have influence over Elizabeth. The actress also provides War Room with some warm humor in several scenes designed to show how the character embraces joy in life.

Whether you’re a person of faith or not, War Room contains some surprisingly astute advice for fighting couples. One of Miss Clara’s big messages is that your spouse is not your enemy, and that marriages break up when people begin viewing their husbands or wives that way. She encourages Elizabeth (who later encourages Tony) to view the problem itself as the enemy, one that requires a team to defeat. Scene by scene, the movie shows Elizabeth and Tony actively trying to apply that concept. The religious message is certainly front and center, but the portrait of two people trying to salvage a marriage in crisis helps give War Room a little broader appeal.

At two hours, the movie is a bit too long, and there are certainly a few moments where the Kendricks pound their message into the audience’s collective head harder than they perhaps need to. But in a time when many faith-based films are suggesting that academia, the government, and medical professionals are waging an all-out war against Christianity, it’s nice to see a story that takes a simpler, more everyday approach. War Room focuses on character and theme rather than on conspiracy theories, and it sees no need to arbitrarily toss in a grand third-act miracle or dramatic salvation. That makes it one of the more entertaining and relatable faith-based films to hit the big screen in recent times.
The Minions shouldn't work. Anything designed to be this cute, endearing and funny should be annoying as hell, call it the "Jar-Jar effect",  but after arriving seemingly fully formed with relatively little fanfare in 2010's Despicable Me, they have, nonetheless managed to steal the show from Steve Carell's Gru in their debut and its 2013 sequel. So much so that they now have their own movie, a prequel and an origin story, of sorts, for the yellow, denim dungaree wearing, weirdos.

Minions is only an origin story in the very loosest definition of the term, their original creation mostly explained away as they just evolved this way, so deal with it. Without any real reason, a large part of that DNA is that they want to be led by the most evil creature they can find. Unfortunately, for any prospective bosses, the other parts of their DNA contain a certain tendency for accident proneness, not at any risk to themselves of course, but that can prove terminal for whoever deicide to take them on. After a particularly bad run of luck, narrated by Rush, the minions settle down to live in an underground idyll away from the world. Without a boss, however, they become despondent pretty quickly and so it falls to one particular minion, Kevin, to venture back out into the world to find his buddies a boss, less-than-ably-assisted by music loving Stuart, who has no real idea if what he has been volunteered for and eager, adventure loving, (if a bit silly) Bob. Oh and not forgetting Bob's teddy bear Tim.

The ensuing adventure is less a story progression that a series of sketches all linked by the common presence of these three minions in 1968. They'll have some hijinks in an uptown department store, encounter a slightly mad family on a road trip, attend "villain-con" (essentially comic-con for villains, there's even a "Hall H" reference for the faithful), bump into famous figures of the 60's and try and get Scarlett Overkill (Bullock), the biggest villain around, to take them on as her minions, all accompanied by an era specific soundtrack. Getting accepted by Scarlett will require the completion of some tasks, with assistance provided by some gadgets provided by Scarlet's husband, Herb (Hamm), but really after this point things just get more and more silly. Importantly though, they do so while remaining entertaining, especially when Jennifer Saunders’  buck-toothed, have-a-go, 60's Queen Elizabeth pops up, although it's hard to say just how UK audiences will take to all the cod-Englishness on display here.

While boasting an impressive cast, many of the bigger names appear only as extended cameos. Keaton and Janney pop up here and there; Steve Coogan only appears for a very brief scene at villain-con while Bullock and Hamm weave in and out of the story from the middle until the end. Bullock is on great form as the temperamental Scarlet, relishing every purr and snarl as her moods swing, and Hamm is pretty much unrecognisable. The brunt of the movie however, rests squarely on the shoulders of co-director Pierre Coffin, who is credited as voice of the minions (perhaps along with some of those "other voices" credits?). Most of the movie is his sing song dialogue, sometimes consisting of total gibberish, sometimes with scatterings of French, Spanish and even Malay, amongst others, thrown into the mix. Along with some savvy writing, he manages to create characters and even character arcs for Kevin, Stuart, and Bob, and it never becomes wearing. Yes, the minions somehow manage to retain their charm in this third outing, whether it's due to their slapstick antics, weirdly mundane names, sunny dispositions (especially Bob) or just the fact that it's impossible to know how just they'll react in any given situation.

The Minions movie is almost complete nonsense, but it's good natured, enjoyable nonsense nonetheless.
IT may boast the world’s smallest superhero but Marvel’s Ant-Man is big on fun and ingenuity.

Making a mockery (yet again) of rumours of a troubled production and creative fatigue within the superhero genre, this introduces a potential new franchise with the same kind of subversive energy that made last year’s Guardians of the Galaxy such a runaway success.

The plot follows cat burglar Scott Lang (Paul Rudd) as he is recruited by ageing scientist Dr Hank Pym (Michael Douglas) to steal a formula designed to shrink men to the size of insects with super-human strength in a bid to create a new super army.

Pym was the man responsible for creating the formula in the first place and now holds the key to preventing it from falling into the wrong hands, while Lang is seeking a shot at redemption and the chance to become a hero to his adoring young daughter.

What follows conforms to a lot of the traits that comic book movies hold dear (responsibility, family values, good vs evil) but is delivered in a manner that somehow feels fresh.

A large part of the thanks for this must therefore go to Edgar Wright, whose initial idea and script (he was also once on board to direct) remains largely intact – and to whom, along with Joe Cornish, Marvel remain indebted.

But there’s also a lot of credit due to Paul Rudd, who creates a suitably charismatic new superhero in Lang (he also helped to re-write the script), and to director Peyton Reed, who stepped into the fray following Wright’s departure and pulls off a genuinely impressive job.

The mix of comedy, drama and action is mostly just right, with the lighter touch proving a master-stroke when compared to heavier Marvel vehicles such as The Avengers. The decision to use a heist movie construct also pays off, helping to make the film seem less of an origins story (which it also is) and more of a genre movie within itself, as well as allowing the whole ensemble to shine.

Hence, aside from Rudd’s hugely endearing Lang (who exhibits the right mix of bravado and vulnerability), Douglas is great value as the wise, mentor-like Pym, Evangeline Lily has plenty to do as Pym’s daughter (combining feisty determination with daughterly frustration) and Michael Pena is a blast as one of Lang’s former prison buddies turned new accomplice.

Even the final third, when most Marvel movies descend into a celebration of CGI carnage, benefits from a smaller approach (and one retained from Wright’s original vision). The decision to host the final smack-down in a little girl’s bedroom provides the opportunity for Reed to deliver some genuinely inspired sight gags without leaving any nagging sense of forgotten collateral damage.

There’s also a couple of winning, crowd-pleasing nods to the wider Marvel universe (with one Avengers character getting a nice sequence) as well as two credits stings (one mid, the other post) that certainly wet the appetite for future instalments to come.

There are minor niggles, of course, and the odd moment where audiences may be left to ponder how much different (and even more innovative) things could have been had Wright remained on board. Corey Stoll’s villain, for instance, is pretty one dimensional, while some of the more family-orientated scenes occasionally feel over-cooked.

But in the main, Ant-Man is a genuine blast – a breezy mix of genres that delivers on many levels while successfully setting up a new franchise. You could even describe it as the near-perfect ant-idote to some of the genre’s own bigger, more destruction focused efforts!
Truly touching, Brooklyn is composed and powerful filmmaking that makes the complications of life seem poetic, beautiful, and integral.
Brooklyn’s premise probably won’t immediately grab you. That’s because it’s the story of a young Irish immigrant who relocates to Brooklyn, New York, in the 1950s, and how she struggles to settle. Honestly, that’s about it. But within this framework, it delivers on every cinematic front that it encroaches. Richly evolving, it subtly stirs your emotions through its tender and gloriously simplistic tale, all of which is anchored by a virtuoso leading performance from Saoirse Ronan -- who is simply majestic, emanating a raw magnetism and power that is reminiscent of 50s melodrama, but with a modern nuance and fragility that is just captivating.

Brooklyn is a glorious retreat away from the modern world. Its 1950s period glistens with an alluring nostalgia. Back to an era when everyone’s problems could be solved at a dance, or with a warm embrace and a loving look. It’s far from lightweight though, dealing with considerable, emotional concerns. But the random arrival of real-life complications seem almost beautiful, poetic and integral. They’re dealt with in a real and stoic fashion, not coddled and fawned over. Life has to move on, and while Brooklyn does so at a leisurely and patient pace, it’s always captivating and moving.

The film grows in confidence alongside its lead character. Rather than going for the overly dramatic and shoving its themes down your throat, Nick Hornby’s script  - which is cheeky, charming, and filled with impactful dialogue and payoffs - lingers on genuine, evocative moments. 

It doesn’t matter whether these are moments of loneliness, isolation, homesickness, nerves or love, there’s alway an honest resonance to chime with. Director John Crowley’s subtle but evocative direction means the emotions always connect, too, while the fact that Crowley has a great eye for an effective image and dawdles just a little longer on shots to give Saoirse Ronan time to resonate makes Brooklyn even more poignant.

John Crowley and Nick Hornby’s work merge together in a powerful and composed fashion. You almost don't notice Brooklyn’s drama building since it escalates through mere glances and longing stares rather than through loud yelling and overt gestures. It also helps that it is exquisitely constructed, too. Even when it does threaten to move into the overly melodramatic, it handles the potential explosion of conflict in a refreshingly realistic and honest manner that doesn’t deviate with what we’ve come to expect from the characters.

While Saoirse Ronan leads the line in a stirring fashion, she’s also provided glorious assistance by a fine ensemble. Emory Cohen’s perpetually sweet Tony Fiorello and Domhnall Gleeson’s stoic Jim Farrell are the men trying to convince Ronan's character, Ellis Lacey, to stay in Brooklyn and Ireland, respectively, and both are lusciously appealing and well-rounded suitors. While merely seeing Jim Broadbent and Julie Walters on-screen provokes the same satisfied feeling that only comes when a tardy passenger sees an even tardier bus on the horizon. 

But it’s Brooklyn’s simplicity that’s the real reason for its success. There’s an underlying optimism and a life-affirming beauty to its story. Its old-school, workmanlike toughness and chivalry is refreshingly unglamorous, utterly endearing, and it all results in Brooklyn being the most satisfying film of the year. 