Two lifelong best friends (Drew Barrymore, Toni Collette) grapple with the crises and conflicts that arise as one (Barrymore) tries to get pregnant and the other (Collette) battles with an aggressive and fast-moving cancer. Barrymore and Collette make engaging use of their considerable star chemistry, while Paddy Considine and Dominic Cooper (as their respective husbands) and Jacqueline Bisset (as Collette's mother) offer stalwart support, with young actors Honor Kneafsey and Ryan Lennon Baker (as Collette's children) adding an agreeable dash of domestic clamor to the proceedings. But Morwenna Banks' script has the excruciating familiarity and predictability of a gal-pal tearjerker we've seen a hundred times already; all that's missing is to have Barrymore burst into a chorus of “Wind Beneath My Wings.” J.L.
Scouts Guide to the Zombie Apocalypse allows for little in the way of interpretative wiggle room. Either you’re of the film’s target audience and will buy into its randy, gory shenanigans wholesale, or you’re probably of the persuasion that the zombie genre was better off before sub-Kevin Smith lines like “I’d tongue-pound her salty walrus” made their way into films that at one time offered some kind of social commentary (however bluntly) and now often aspire instead to the lofty narrative heights of Call of Duty’s vaunted Zombie mode. It’s for some, and not for many. And that’s ostensibly okay, but even the most obsessive fans of the genre might find themselves stupefied by the film. Or even worse, bored.

For the film’s central trio, scouting lost its appeal a long time ago. For Carter (Logan Miller), their troop rituals are getting in the way of his ability to have all the sex he literally never stops talking about. For Ben (Tye Sheridan, already better than this), it’s a courtesy to their longtime friend Augie (Joey Morgan), a nervous type who’s all-in on scouting because it constitutes his last remaining tie to his deceased father. Their obnoxious troop leader (David Koechner) keeps trying to recruit new men, but in vain; nobody cares about scouting anymore, what with their smartphones and so forth. Carter helpfully postulates that instead of maintaining their charade for Augie’s sake, “we start thinking about pussy!”

But they have one last ritual to complete: a campout to celebrate Augie receiving the highest badge of honor their troop offers. Elsewhere, in prologue, Blake from Workaholics does a pantomime to Iggy Azalea’s “Black Widow” (a reference that will absolutely not date Scouts Guide in any way, surely) and inadvertently becomes a Patient Zero’s first victim, kicking off a viral outbreak that quickly overwhelms the small suburban town. Soon it’s up to the three misfits to save their town, save the highly exclusive black light rave full of buxom teenage girls kissing they so desperately wish to attend, and maybe get laid as the result of killing zombies? It’s unclear, but a point on which the film hits early and often.

Christopher Landon, who penned the Paranormal Activity sequels and directed The Marked Ones, approaches Scouts Guide as equal parts Superbad and outbreak tale, and neither side ends up particularly appealing. Most of the action appears to take place over the course of a very walkable few blocks, and while Landon does his best to cover the film’s low-budget trappings with rapid-fire editing and all manner of zombie violence, the best he musters in the way of innovation is the image of Sheridan attempting to avoid falling from a second-story window, suspended in midair by an elderly zombie’s stretched member. So the ceiling is pretty low here.

Everything about Scouts Guide feels instantly irrelevant, from the EDM-heavy soundtrack (again, the film’s bloody climax takes place at a rave, complete with a Dillon Francis cameo) to the generally tepid if overindulgent gore, which suggests that those involved in the film’s production haven’t seen the zombie movie pushed to its many extremes in the past few years as it is. Even so, the generally unremarkable filmmaking could be somewhat explained away if the film were to commit more fully to being a hard-R comedy instead of the poorest man’s Shaun of the Dead for which it aims.

Alas, this moment of awareness never emerges, and Scouts Guide tediously overcompensates for its lack of innovative violence or any kind of real point with a half-hearted attempt to cast scouting as a lost means of male bonding between all the sex jokes. And that’s where the film goes from just being a bad zombie movie to one that’s genuinely a little bit repugnant. They break into a strip club, where Carter fawns over a zombie who takes the time to perform a pole dance before attempting to tear his face off. At another point, a busty police officer-turned-zombie has her shirt torn off, no doubt a doff of the cap to teens who came to the zombie movie not just to laugh or scream, but be titillated by dead people, apparently? And that’s to say nothing of Denise (Sarah Dumont), a dancer at the aforementioned club who only enters the film to give Ben the courage to hit on more girls and wield a shotgun while rocking hot pants. Or Carter’s teenage sister, who the film and its various characters leer over with the grace and nuance of Michael Bay.

By the time the boys drive into a True Value to arm themselves for the final battle, Scouts Guide to the Zombie Apocalypse has already overstayed its welcome, a film that’s gruesome without ever being shocking and vulgar without garnering a single laugh. But as a film about rites of passage, specifically those when generally nice if dweeby boys pick up weapons and thus command the attention of hot blondes, it ends up being more than just sophomoric. It’s also disquieting, and depressing.

Out of all the films in the recent epidemic of live-action adaptations of Disney animated classics, Pan was the “reimagining” (of whatever description we’ve cycled onto) that held the most promise. Not only is the J. M. Barrie source so whimsically imaginative that it’s ripe for reinterpretation, but Joe Wright’s film has been produced by Warner Bros., so unlike Alice In Wondefland, Maleficent, Cinderella, The Jungle Book, Beauty And The Beast et al there wasn’t going to be the same slavish brand management working just beneath the surface and instead we’d get a piece driven by a singular vision.
Or so you’d think. In reality Pan is a jumble of half-heartedly realised, corporately-mandated ideas that show Hollywood at its worst.
For starters, in a bid to ride a wave of perceived popularity, the film inexplicably posits itself as a pseudo-prequel to Disney’s Peter Pan (rather than a Batman Begins-style restart), with the story of Peter Pan first travelling to Neverland transplanted to World War II to allow just enough time for things to develop ahead of the events of the 1953 film. It’s an odd idea that barely makes sense – I’d always assumed the Darling children were from Victorian London, and how does such a time jump allow their mother to have met Peter Pan – although that’s only the start of the problems.
You see, in being a prequel Pan also shifts the meaning behind the mythology. Peter Pan is, originally, about a fear of growing up, but that’s replaced here with destiny, doing your duty and the morals of every prophecy-driven movie from the past ten years. Yes, that’s right – like Darth Vader, Harry Potter and Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles (I don’t really care about the latter, but it’s still an irritation) before him, it’s now Peter Pan’s turn to be the “chosen one”. Why? Easier to write a screenplay where the hero becomes the hero because he’s repeatedly told he’s going to be the hero. Hero. Urgh.
Warner Bros. Pictures
Warner Bros. Pictures
Then there’s the part of Pan that’s trying to be the basis for a new action-fantasy franchise in the vein of Harry Potter; a pre-teen is dropped into a fantastical world with vaguely-fantastical sensibilities and there’s an overwhelming leaning on a Sense Of Wonder™. It all but begs to be called a “visual treat”, but while some of it does look good (that’ll be Wright’s talent shining through the studio’s sanitisation), like any poorly written, lazily acted film that’s not enough. Especially when the CGI is so unrefined and shiny (particularly with some giant birds who are mostly skeletons likely to save time on animating feathers) that outside of a couple of shots the film feels like a never-ending video-game cutscene.
This chasing of Potter and Wonderland may be the film’s most subtly awful element; there’s an unearned desire for more. We meet James Hook, future croc-fearing nemesis to Peter who is here his best chum, but there’s nary an attempt to progress him towards his moustache-frazzled future. Instead we get repeated moments of hack-job foreshadowing begging for a sequel, right up until the very final moments, but, like every other sequel-hungry first-parter, the film forgets to be interesting enough to warrant one.
Pan tries to be so many things, all of them intrinsically against what Peter Pan really should be, that it winds up a muddle you almost feel embarrassed watching. The real world we open in is a caricature of period London – all “aw’right guv’nor” accents (I’m sure Levi Miller is a fine child actor, but he’s constantly irritating as Pay-ter) and Oliver Twist orphanages – while Neverland is a series of bright, echoey sound stages with “weirdness” taken as style. The most misjudged element has to be the villain; Hugh Jackman hams it up ridiculously as Blackbeard (who, I sh*t you not, is introduced to a cover of Nirvana’s Smells Like Teen Spirit chanted by his Temple Of Doom-esque child slaves) and even gets a “he’s behind you moment”.
Warner Bros. Pictures
Warner Bros. Pictures
It’s a pantomime. And not the good kind where you can unironically enjoy some campy theatrics, but a halfhearted run through of whatever classic tale was to hand during the writing process starring actors who either should know better but need the paycheck or are up-and-comers happy for the chance running about clearly fake sets. I’ve no idea what exactly Pan was trying to be, but, holy pudding, it’s as far away from it as possible.
Before I wrap up, it’s worth weighing in on a key point of contention that might be distracting a bit from the bigger picture. Much has been made of the casting of white Rooney Mara as native chieftess Tiger Lily. It actually makes some sense in the film, with Neverland removed from reality and the tribe a purposely multicultural gang, so, a shaky accent (British – we’re not in The Lone Ranger territory) aside it doesn’t matter too much. Where the character’s presentation (and, it turns out, casting) is offensive is in her reworking as a love interest – Tiger Lily may be able to tackle Blackbeard in a fight, but in between those moments it’s all simpering glances, wobbly knees and getting all aflutter at advances from Hook.
Pan is everything wrong with the current approach to blockbuster filmmaking. I mean, why are we even making a live-action Peter Pan in 2015? I hazard it’s because he represents a world where things don’t change, and childlike idealism lives forever, something that oh-so embodies Hollywood’s current model. Well, I’m sorry, but it’s time to grow up.

Everyone always talks about superhero fatigue, but what about young adult sci-fi fatigue?
Those movies are just as prevalent as their spandex-clad counterparts – both “sub-genres” offered up three entries this year – and what the adaptations of teen fiction lack in the longevity of those from comic books, they more than make up for in a head-banging lack of diversity. You see, while superheroes have had their various stages of development (initial boom, gritty reboot, shared universes) push filmmakers to try new things, YA has only one setting – Hunger Games imitation.
Ever since that series became a billion dollar venture, everyone’s being trying to cash in, no matter how careless it seems. The Maze Runner may not be as blatant about this as rip-off leader Divergent, but it’s certainly lazier in its attempts to cultivate a Panem-size hit.
20th Century Fox
20th Century Fox
The films, and I can only assume the books that inspired them, may appear to be ticking all the requisite boxes, but they’re totally missing what made the Jennifer Lawrence-vehicle reach beyond those obsessed with Suzanne Collins’s novels. And that was how meticulously the world was constructed – they had their own history and semi-believable societal structure. With The Maze Runner it’s kept painfully vague what exactly this future is, at first for narrative tension but over time seemingly because author Philip Straub was making it up as he went along; at the end of the first book, or at least the film, the curtain was pulled back only to reveal another, bigger curtain.
There is a better attempt to explain the world in sequel, called The Scorch Trials because that sounds cool rather than actually making sense, but it’s mostly centred around answering questions left purposely hanging from the last movie than providing its own new story.
The plot is thus very fractured and choppy, and pretty reliant on remembering what happened in the previous film. The basic idea is that the kids who survived the deadly maze (incidentally, why they were in the maze is still unanswered) are on the run from Wicked, a company that clearly has a terrible PR department, who want them because reasons. In fact, when you think about it that’s both the premise and the plot – very little story actually happens for much of the runtime, and when it does it’ll invariably wind up feeling incidental twenty minutes later.
20th Century Fox
20th Century Fox
In amongst the pointless divergences there’s lots sudden action to try and create the illusion of forward momentum, which mostly involve our oversized group of heroes taking a break from standing about in trailer poses to run from faceless bad guys. It’s empty, exhausting and built almost entirely on convenience, ensuring you’re never involved after the sudden jolt into movement. At one point a character says he’s sick of running”. You and me both, bub.
Occasionally you will get a burst of ingenuity – a cool camera angle here or borderline interesting idea there – but they’re rendered worthless by a terrible story that doesn’t understand its events or characters. As I left the cinema, one of the tween target audience tried to explain the plot to her far-less-interested friend and even she seemed to struggle finding sense or purpose in it. I can’t really blame her – the film is all set-up, with only a brief climax serving as an interlude before setting up the next movie. And, naturally, that once again involves a lot of dangling plot threads.
20th Century Fox
20th Century Fox
I’m sick of episodic movie making, where a single story is stretched out over multiple films often years apart. Yes, superhero flicks now have that to some degree with their interconnected continuity, but at least there’s always still an attempt to tell a standalone tale. The Scorch Trials is just a long bridge between the beginning and end that we’ll call the middle by pure placement rather than actual narrative content. The Maze Runner is still yet to answer its intrinsic questions, and won’t for another bloody year an a half, when The Death Cure (I’m sure that’d be a spoiler if I cared about the story) hits.
Heck, it’ll be probably take even longer. Don’t be surprised if it’s announced the final book is going to be split in two at the last minute. Y’know, just so they can best tell this intricately planned story.
The film that dares to ask: will you buy Sandra Bullock as a borderline, ball-busting political strategist? To bring down your asking price, the film takes her south of the border, where everything is portrayed as cheaper: the cynicism, the political strategizing, the despair, and even the redemption. At least in Bolivia, concrete things like bus tours, factory visits, and flyers might still make a difference, so director David Gordon Green (Manglehorn) has something to film besides campaign meetings and silly commercials. (That said, there are plenty of campaign meetings and silly commercials, and the bus tour serves as the excuse for a spectacularly dumb chase scene along a windy mountain road.) If everything was nastier, it might have made for a decent black comedy. If something was more heartfelt, it might have made for a decent personal drama. But in both the movie and the campaign it depicts, cleverness is the order of the day. And cleverness doesn't inspire allegiance. Or emotion. With Billy Bob Thornton as the (not so) bad guy. 2015.
Crimson Peak isn’t a horror. Guillermo del Toro really wants you to understand that.
When we meet Mia Wasikowska’s Edith Cushing, she’s written “a story with a ghost in it”, but while struggling to get it published is keen to emphasise that it is not “a ghost story”. The spirits are merely metaphors for the past, she says, multiple times, making clear what the film we’re watching really isn’t. You see, somewhat contrary to the marketing, this is a “gothic romance”, with Edith and Tom Hiddleston’s Sir Thomas Sharpe marrying and moving to his creaky, literally breathing mansion in Cumberland, along with Jessica Chastain as his mysterious sister. It’s weird and bizarre, with some cracking visuals, but only intermittently scary.
Which is a shame, because the film is at its best when it’s entering into horror territory; dark, angular corridors hold both shadows of the imagination and ghosts bleeding spiritual wisps into the mortal world, with a thudding heartbeat further personifying Allendale Hall as a living character. Intermittently it’s some of the scariest cinema of 2015. If there’d been more of this, we could have had something really great.
Universal Pictures
Universal Pictures
Get away from these isolated moments, however, and it’s a different picture. In fact, those competent (and infrequent) horror moments don’t really fit inside the film. They come randomly, breaking over-the-top sereneness, and often culminate in jump scares accompanied with a requisite audio boom. That’s right, signalled jump scares. Are we watching a “master of horror” or the latest Paranormal Activity hackjob?
This would be excusable, especially given that the director has made clear he’s leading us into a not-horror world, if what else Crimson Peak was offering was great. But it isn’t.
The script is obvious in both dialogue and plotting – if you can’t figure out exactly where things are going from each character’s introductory lines, you just aren’t trying – and the pacing is all over the shop, jumping and stagnating on a whim. That gothic styling is equally erratic, accompanied all too often with a fairly large slice of kitsch (watch out for the circle-zoom of death). Oh, production-wise the film is excellent (that should be obvious), but while it looks great, tonally it is more Dark Shadows than Pan’s Labyrinth.
Universal Pictures
Universal Pictures
I had a similar “Yeah, and?” feeling towards Pacific Rim (and, to a lesser extent Hellboy); it’s pretty, but where’s the heart or filmmaking skill? I get it – we all want to see auteurs who produce exciting, original projects, but that desire shouldn’t allow us to overlook things as simple as poor dialogue dubbing and blatant editing mistakes. Guillermo del Toro has got himself to a point where people are going to praise him for a modicum of style amongst a rather generic film just because he’s Guillermo del Toro; were he any another director he would be savaged for Crimson Peak.
It’s at best an unrefined vision, with that early clarification of not being a ghost story turning out to be more insurance against criticism than the key to understanding the film. In contradiction of Edith’s insistence, the ghosts aren’t really metaphors (unless you really want to stretch things). They’re not even all out evil. They’re plot devices, existing to push the story more than provide well-constructed bumps in the night.
So yeah, Crimson Peak isn’t a horror. It’s not that good either.
Oh my, does Suffragette really want you to take it seriously.

It features heavy-hitters such as Meryl Streep, Helena Bonham Carter and Carey Mulligan. Its topic is weighty and important: women’s suffrage. "This is important stuff," it almost screams.

 Carey Mulligan portrays Maud Watts, center, in 'Suffragette.'
Carey Mulligan portrays Maud Watts, center, in 'Suffragette.'
The problem is, you can’t.

The movie, poised to be the darling of the award season, is so dull-as-dishwater, you’ll be happy when the final credits roll. You won’t really care that women won the right to vote. You’ll just want to leave the theatre, buy some wine and forget the whole depressing experience.

The movie starts by quickly sketching the main character, Maud (Mulligan). She’s a young wife and mother and has worked her way up as a washer woman in a factory.

But Mulligan shows zero range in the role; we never really buy that she’s angry, happy or conflicted because her bland, robotic expression seldom changes.

The only time she comes alive is in the scenes that portrays her playing with her son, George. Unfortunately, they are the exception rather than the rule.

Maud, while on a delivery, finds herself in the centre of a protest by women in the suffragettes movement, who throw rocks at a store window and are arrested and beaten by police. She quickly becomes a part of the organization, becoming friends with activists Edith (Helena Bonham Carter) and Violet (Anne-Marie Duff).

The script by Abi Morgan never makes clear how Maud makes the leap from innocent bystander to ardent activist, except for a nebulous backstory that she was sexually harassed in her position as a presser while still a young girl.

However, she wholeheartedly embraces the cause, getting fired from her job after she attacks her supervisor. She is then thrown out on the streets by her husband, Sonny (Ben Whishaw), who is embarrassed that his wife was escorted home by police for all the neighbours to see.

For those who might be drawn to the film to see Streep, don’t bother. She plays only a minor role in the film, as Emmeline Pankhurst, the leader of the Women’s Social and Political Union, the organization where Maud spends her days.

At one point, Maud is imprisoned for her fight to get votes for women and suffers the inhumanity of being force-fed.

In a bit of heavy-handed foreshadowing, a police inspector (Brendan Gleeson) who’s monitoring the situation makes it clear that if one woman dies for this cause, the police will lose public support.

The film details the end of an injustice, but the injustice continues when the story ends.

The credits list dates when women got the right to vote, but Canada’s date is overlooked, not to mention Manitoba’s, which granted the vote in 1916, more than two years before the United Kingdom did and four years before the United States.

But that’s not the most heinous omission. Suffragette is a remarkably white film. All the suffragettes portrayed fighting for the vote are white women, completely ignoring the role of immigrant activists such as Princess Sophia Duleep Singh, daughter of Maharaja Duleep Singh, who marched beside Pankhurst.

In fact, Suffragette depicts all the women who worked in the factories and lived in the slums of this make-believe London as white. That’s hardly true, given that London at the turn of the 20th century was becoming the site for immigration from around the globe.

It’s a final reason this film can’t be taken seriously, no matter how much the producers want you to.
A cowardly movie about brave people. Part one is heartrendingly human, bordering on wise: a considered portrait of motherly love under extreme duress. To wit: Ma (Brie Larson) is both captive and sexual slave to a dim Midwestern monster, trapped in a soundproofed shed with a son (Jacob Tremblay) who has never seen the world outside. (Well, except on TV.) Wonderfully and believably, she gives the boy a life, an education, a cosmology, and a family; what is more, she manages to shield him from the horror of her own situation. It's only when the boy's innocence is threatened that she resolves to set him free. (Spoilers, of a sort, to follow.) Free him she does, and that's when the film loses its nerve, transforming from an unflinching look at love amid suffering into an embarrassing bout of wishful thinking. It makes sense for Ma to fall apart once the ordeal is over. But it does not make sense — psychologically, developmentally, but above all, narratively — for an anger-prone child whose entire, largely happy world has been ripped asunder to magically become both moppet and angel of salvation. #DiscoverYourFantasy. Directed by Lenny Abrahamson (Frank). 2015.
Once you’d finished laughing at We Are Your Friends’ pitiful box office return from this weekend, you might have noticed that in second place -- behind Straight Outta Compton’s third Sunday in a row at the summit of the chart -- was War Room. 

Now, there’s a good chance that you don’t know too much about War Room, or about the talents of Alex Kendrick and Stephen Kendrick, the writing, producing and directing team behind the film. But even though they’ve received little to no attention from the mainstream press, the Kendrick brothers’ four previous films each have steadily returned hugely impressive numbers, especially when you consider their paltry budgets.

Building upon 2011’s Courageous and 2009’s Fireproof, the new War Room grossed $11 million over the last three days after being made for just $3 million. But does this mean that The Kendrick Brothers are the latest sibling filmmaking team that you now need to look out for, like the Russos, or even the Nolans? Far from it. Because War Room is so unabashedly brazen with its Evangelical agenda, and shows such a blatant disregard for plot, character and cinema in general, only divine intervention will stop you from walking out. 

War Room revolves around the family drama between the highly successful and beautiful Elizabeth (Priscilla C. Shirer) and Tony Jordan (T.C. Stallings), a married pair of 16 years who have a daughter of around 8 but have been failing to communicate. It doesn’t help that Tony is a bit of a dick. He's not helpful at home, unresponsive to both his wife and daughter, unwilling to help out his financially stricken sister-in-law, and he’s even considering cheating.

Elizabeth is well aware of her husband’s foibles, but a chance encounter with Miss Clara (Karen Abercrombie), a busybody with a good heart and strong belief in the work of prayer and the Lord. She soon provides the struggling wife with a solution to her problems. This comes in the form of a War Room, where Elizabeth can sit in solace and pray while using Bible verses and other inspirational passages, which she glues to her wall, to inspire her. After converting her closet into this haven, Elizabeth immediately notices an emotional and spiritual difference, as she spends less time quarrelling over Tony’s numerous failures, and instead begins to support him. And that’s about it.

Now, if you haven’t dismissed the above as poppycock then War Room might just be for you. Undoubtedly, it has its heart in the right place. In fact, its message of “treat others as you want to be treated” and the lessons about the hollowness of materialism are so blatant, it’s almost embarrassing. 

As a film, War Room isn’t just a monumental failure. It actually should be hung, drawn and quartered for crimes against cinema. Not only are its characters painfully dull, but there is literally no plot or drive, other than the fact that Tony and Elizabeth’s marriage has slightly stagnated. It’s littered with turgid, unrealistic dialogue, and the direction is preposterously lifeless, with the Kendrick Brothers often just resorting to haphazard montage sequences to pass the time. Plus, it drags on for two hours! Two life-sapping hours.

Here’s the thing, though. War Room isn’t really a movie. Instead, it’s just a glossy, elongated infomercial for prayer. And, if you’re inclined to accept its agenda, it works. Because the audience I saw it with hooted, praised and squealed with joy at the right times. They didn’t care that it was basically the love child of Kirk Cameron and The Room. It struck a chord. And this success not only means that more films of its ilk could become more and more prominent in mainstream Hollywood, it also proves that audiences would rather see an empty room with prayers stuck on the wall than Zac Efron DJing. 
Early on in Minions, three of the jabbering yellow blobs realise that to continue their quest to find a master they need to head to Orlando. “Orlando” they scream as they write “Orlando” on a sign so they can hitchhike to Orlando. Orlando, Orlando, Orlando. They are going to Orlando and you bloody well know it.
The gang want to visit Villain-Con (this is the sixties, so Orlando is still a cesspit, apparently), but the Florida city’s name is clearly being dropped to plant the home of Universal Studios in innocent children’s heads. This is the key to the problem at the heart of Minions. It’s not been made because someone thought there was a story to tell about the hench-things from Despicable Me. And nobody’s stepped in to lend such a cynical concept worth. Instead, right from the jabbering cover of the Universal Pictures opening logo, it’s clear this is a branding exercise that exists purely to immortalise the Minions as pop culture staples.
Even before this Despicable Me spinoff came along, the Minions were everywhere. The dungarees and goggles have been slapped on everything imaginable – a Jungle Run rip-off, their own Haribo brand and more plushies at fairground stalls than you can shake a dook-hook at, the merchandise saturation makes George Lucas’ efforts look positively lazy.
Universal Pictures
Universal Pictures
And that’s all Minions (the movie) serves to extend. Want a plot? Sorry, there’s only a vague story that has no character motivation behind it. But look, it has Minions! Want character? Sorry, the personality of the three heroes only go as far their height and number of eyes. But look, they’re Minions. Want jokes? Sorry, it’s so desperate that even the funny bits from the trailer are neutered from over-explanation. But at least it’s Minions and… wait, what?
That’s right – in what is probably its biggest crime, Minions isn’t even funny. It tries and tries, seemingly wanting for something akin to the endless zany ridiculousness of Phil Lord and Christopher Miller (the geniuses behind recent animation highlights Cloudy With A Chance Of Meatballs and The Lego Movie), but can’t commit. It’s never anything close to the logical silliness of Lego or Meatballs, instead just a standard A-B-C narrative with a few, out-of-place stupid moments.
And it’s not the good kind of stupid. When the Minions aren’t just talking in pidgin-gibberish, the film is either regurgitating moments from all manner of better comedies or lazily trotting out stereotypes without ever trying for novel observations; much of the film is set in London, so the same “the English always drink tea” rib-tickler is used about a dozen times. It almost comes across as a heightened reality, but is so empty and desperate that the occasional moments that work (and they’re more infrequent than you’d expect) feel like an accident.
Universal Pictures
Universal Pictures
In a year when Pixar are delivering one of their smartest films ever, this all just feels insulting. Aside from the extended Orlando mention (and, surely, Villain-Con, which has its main attraction in Hall H, should actually be in San Diego), the film skirts away from smarts at every turn; even though the team once served Napoleon and a hero later finds themselves on Nelson’s column, there is zero attempt to link the two. In that vein, you have to imagine the film is only set in the late-sixties so they can do a joke about faking the Moon landing and have an Abbey Road cameo (and those moments are as unfunny as they are simplistically obvious).
I was never rolling about in the aisles during the first two Despicable Me films, and really didn’t like how many imitators the Minions instantaneously sparked, but I did at least appreciate their charm. Now I am totally spent. With this vapid movie, which has captured the imaginations of children and beyond before it’s even released in all worldwide territories, we’ve past the point of no return. There’s now no way the Minions will be remembered as a silly trend that lasts a couple of years we all regret in a decade’s time.
No, they’re an inescapable cultural force, a Generation Z equivalent of Woody and Buzz or, even worse in terms of dominance, Looney Tunes. Forget a never ending stream of superheroes or the dredging up of long-dead nostalgia properties; this is the real death-knell of modern cinema.
Oh well. Who wants to come to Universal Studios Orlando with me?
The jokes don’t land and the thrills don’t thrill in this shrinky-dink superhero saga
There’s an old “Saturday Night Live” sketch from the 1970s about superheroes gathering at a cocktail party, and poor Ant-Man (played by Garrett Morris) just can’t get any respect from his peers.
“Check this guy out,” says The Flash (Dan Aykroyd). “He’s got the strength of a human.”
Several decades later, Ant-Man still can’t catch a break. Finally the star of his own big Marvel Cinematic Universe vehicle, he gets stuck with the exceedingly pedestrian Peyton Reed in the director’s chair, taking over for Edgar Wright. Reed’s “Down with Love” was a concept and some art direction in search of a movie, and his “Ant-Man” serves up jokes that don’t land and thrills that don’t thrill.
See Video: 'Ant-Man' Wants to Call the Avengers to Save the World in New Trailer (Video)
It’s always possible that the man behind “Scott Pilgrim vs. the World” and “Shaun of the Dead” might not have done any better, since the screenplay — credited to Wright and Joe Cornish (“Attack the Block”) and Adam McKay and star Paul Rudd — relies upon a collection of Intro Screenwriting tropes that are thoroughly shopworn. Familiar notions like “Doing This for My Daughter,” “I Was a Distant Parent, For My Child’s Own Good,” and “When Someone Says ‘Don’t Press That Button’ in Act One…” get trotted out in a most listless fashion.
Not that the other Marvel movies haven’t relied on familiar plot turns, but “Ant-Man” doesn’t provide enough dazzle camouflage to cover its tracks. The supposedly humorous sidekicks are grating, the love interest (Evangeline Lilly in a Louise Brooks bob and matching power pantsuits) generates zero sparks, and while the climactic battle spawns a memorable sight gag or two, the emotional stakes are never such that the eventual big showdown will have anyone gripping their armrests.
AntMan54b5cd0fe605dEven with four writers, the movie never acknowledges that our hero and the other good guys allow a helicopter to crash-land in a heavily populated area. Not that this is the sort of movie to pay much attention to detail.
We open in a flashback to 1989, where scientist Henry Pym (Michael Douglas, digitally rejuvenated far more effectively than Jeff Bridges in “Tron: Legacy” and less waxily than Arnold Schwarzenegger in “Terminator Genisys”) leaves SHIELD and takes his “Pym particle” with him after a nefarious executive (Martin Donovan) plans to weaponize it. Cut to the present, where Scott Lang (Rudd) is being released from San Quentin. He’s a cat burglar with a conscience — he broke into a credit card company’s computers to return money that had been gouged from its customers — but he’s still a convicted felon, making it difficult for him to keep a job and to have joint custody of his daughter Cassie (Abby Ryder Fortson, “Transparent”).
Trying and failing to go straight, Scott agrees to break into a house with a safe, but when he cracks it, he finds only a strange costume and helmet. Trying it on at home, Scott presses a button in the glove and suddenly shrinks down to ant-size. Pym, you see, has set up the robbery to recruit Scott to break into Pym’s old company and to steal a prototype of the Yellowjacket, another shrinking weapons suit developed by Pym’s former protégé Darren Cross (Corey Stoll).
Also Read: Paul Rudd's Tiny 'Ant-Man' on Track for Giant Debut at Box Office
Cue the learning-to-use-the-suit montage as Pym and his bristly daughter Hope (Lilly) put Scott through his paces, eventually adding Scott’s Three Stooge-ish friends (played by Michael Peña, rapper T.I. and David Dastmalchian) to pull off the caper. To its credit, “Ant-Man” isn’t yet another movie where the fate of the entire world rests upon the outcome, but the script could have used more personal stakes to counterbalance the relatively minor business of keeping the shrinky suits out of the hands of HYDRA.
There are individual pieces of the movie that work wonderfully, whether it’s Douglas’ performance (he’s both dryly witty and convincingly bitter) or the execution of the heist on Pym’s house (complete with 1970s wacka-chicka guitar riffs). There’s also a satisfying bit of “Avengers” crossover material that works on its own and not just as franchise-building. Unfortunately, this is also the kind of movie where talented actors do some of their least notable work, whether it’s Stoll’s Snidely Whiplash routine, Peña overplaying the wackiness or Rudd having all of the charm and charisma stomped out of him.
Also Read: Marvel's 'Ant-Man' Resolves Writing Credit Dispute (Exclusive)
Everything funny and mischievous about Rudd has been tamped down and turned into processed cheese here, just like what “Jurassic World” did to Chris Pratt. (Speaking of which, “Ant-Man” is the second movie this summer that takes the vibrant, talented Judy Greer and wastes her as a fretting mom.)
The preview audience around me hooted and hollered throughout, particularly when there were any shout-outs to the other Marvel movie or TV properties, so no doubt fans of the “gotta-see-‘em-all” bent will eat this one right up. As someone who has liked a majority of these Marvel adaptations, I can only hope that “Ant-Man” represents a temporary dip that’s not the beginning of a slippery slope.